docs: add admin role JWT authz tutorial [skip ci] (#846)
hyperledger-labs/open-enterprise-agent: docs/docusaurus/multitenancy/admin-authz-ext-iam.md

# Admin Authorization with External IAM

In the past tutorials, the administrator utilized a static API key for authentication and authorization.
The Agent also features a more sophisticated role-based authorization mechanism using external IAM,

> allowing users to be authorized under different roles and granting access to different parts of the Agent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
allowing users to be authorized under different roles and granting access to parts of the Agent.
```

## Roles

For the Agent admin authorization, we need to distinguish the administrator of each component

1. [Agent Administrator](/docs/concepts/glossary#administrator)
2. Keycloak Administrator

> These roles may also be represented by the same person.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The same person may also represent these roles.
```

## Prerequisites

1. Keycloak up and running
2. Keycloak is configured as follows
   1. A realm called `my-realm` is created
   2. A client called `prism-agent` under `my-realm` with __authorization__ feature is created. (See [create client instruction](https://www.keycloak.org/docs/latest/authorization_services/index.html#_resource_server_create_client))
   3. Make sure the `prism-agent` client has __direct access grants__ enabled to simplify the login
3. PRISM Agent up and running
4. PRISM Agent is configured with the following environment variables:
   1. `KEYCLOAK_ENABLED=true`
   2. `KEYCLOAK_URL=http://localhost:9980` (replace with appropriate value)
   3. `KEYCLOAK_REALM=my-realm`
   4. `KEYCLOAK_CLIENT_ID=prism-agent`
   5. `KEYCLOAK_CLIENT_SECRET=<KEYCLOAK_CLIENT_SECRET>` (replace with appropriate value)

>    6. `KEYCLOAL_ROLES_CLAIM_PATH=resource_access.prism-agent.roles`

Reviewer 2: I wonder if it makes sense to create a directory, `tutorials` in the OEA directory with the scripts and docker-compose files that can be used to go through the tutorial.
I think it might simplify the life for users who want to test a particular capability

Reviewer 2: Not now; I think we can propose this improvement at AoH or Engineering meeting.
as for me, it would really help if we add `tutorials` and `demo` directories with the instructions and workable setup for the useres.

## Overview

This tutorial will guide you through the steps to configure roles in Keycloak and

> subsequently demonstrate the authorization process as an administrator within the agent,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
demonstrate the authorization process as an administrator within the agent,
```

## Endpoints

### Agent endpoints
| Endpoint                                   | Description                          | Role          |
|--------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------|---------------|
| `GET /wallets`                             | List the wallets on PRISM Agent      | Administrator |

### Keycloak endpoints
| Endpoint                                             | Description                   | Role         |
|------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------|--------------|
| `POST /realms/{realm}/protocol/openid-connect/token` | Issue a new JWT token         | Administrator|

## Keycloak Administrator interactions

### 1. Configure Keycloak role on the client

Open the Keycloak admin UI in the browser and navigate to `my-realm` in the admin UI.
Choose the corresponding client to create a `ClientRole`.
Choose __Role__ tab in the client menu and create a new role called `admin`

![](./create_client_role.png)

### 2. Assign the `admin` role to the user

> Once the role is created, the admin user should be assigned this role.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the role gets created, the admin user should be assigned this role.
```

> To keep the tutorial simple, the role will be directly assigned to the user without managing any group or other metadata.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For simplicity, we will assign the role to the user without managing any group or other metadata.
```

Navigate to __Users__ menu on the sidebar in the admin UI.
Click on the user that should have the `admin` role.
Choose __Role Mapping__ tab and click __Assign Role__.
Choose __Filter by clients__ in the dropdown menu. Then choose the `admin` role.

> A detailed explanation how to create a role mapping can be found in the [Keycloak official documentation](https://www.keycloak.org/docs/latest/server_admin/#proc-assigning-role-mappings_server_administration_guide).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fore more info on role mapping see the [Keycloak official documentation](https://www.keycloak.org/docs/latest/server_admin/#proc-assigning-role-mappings_server_administration_guide).
```

If a user does not exist, a new user can be created by following this [Keycloak official guide](https://www.keycloak.org/docs/latest/server_admin/#proc-creating-user_server_administration_guide).

> After this step, the user should have the `admin` role assigned and after they log in, the `roles` claim should appear in the JWT payload.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After this step, the user should have the `admin` role assigned, and after they log in, the `roles` claim should appear in the JWT payload.
```

## Agent Administrator interactions

> ### 1. Obtain access token from Keycloak

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 1. Obtain an access token from Keycloak
```

> The admin user can now login by any configured authorization flow in Keycloak.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The admin user can now log in by any configured authorization flow in Keycloak.
```

In this example, the __direct access grant__ is used to login.

> Run the command to log in as admin

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the command to log in as admin.
```

```bash
curl -X 'POST' \
  'http://localhost:9980/realms/my-realm/protocol/openid-connect/token' \
  -d "grant_type=password" \
  -d "client_id=admin-cli" \
  -d "username=alice" \
  -d "password=1234"
```

Example token response (some fields omitted for readability)

```json
{
    "access_token": "eyJhbGciOi...7ocDHofUDQ",
    "refresh_token": "eyJhbGciOi...otsEEi4eQA",
    ...
}
```

Inspecting the `access_token` payload, it should have the following content

```json
{
  "resource_access": {
    "prism-agent": {
      "roles": [
        "admin"
      ]
    },
    "account": {
      "roles": [
        "manage-account",
        "manage-account-links",
        "view-profile"
      ]
    }
  },
  ...
}
```

### 2. Perform a simple action to verify admin rights on the Agent

To prove that the admin can perform admin tasks,
try listing all the tenants' wallets using the JWT in the `Authorization` header.

```bash
curl --location --request GET 'http://localhost:8080/prism-agent/wallets' \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer eyJhbGciOi...e7H6W8RUvA' \
  -H 'Accept: application/json'
```

The response should return a list of all wallets on the Agent with HTTP status 200.

> Trying to perform prohibitied tenant interactions such as listing the DIDs in the wallet will result in an authorization error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Trying to perform prohibited tenant interactions, such as listing the DIDs in the wallet, will result in an authorization error.
```
